gh-134160: Block multiple module initialization (#134773)
python/cpython: Doc/extending/extending.rst

:c:data:`PyExc_ValueError` is appropriate.

You can also define a new exception that is unique to your module.
The simplest way to do this is to declare a static global object variable at
the beginning of the file::

   static PyObject *SpamError = NULL;

and initialize it by calling :c:func:`PyErr_NewException` in the module's
:c:data:`Py_mod_exec` function (:c:func:`!spam_module_exec`)::

   SpamError = PyErr_NewException("spam.error", NULL, NULL);

Since :c:data:`!SpamError` is a global variable, each call to the
:c:data:`Py_mod_exec` function would overwrite it.
For now, let's avoid the issue:
we will block repeated initialization by raising an

> :py:exc:`ImportError`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since :c:data:`!SpamError` is a global variable, it will be overwitten every time
the module is reinitialized, when the :c:data:`Py_mod_exec` function is called.

For now, let's avoid the issue: we will block repeated initialization by raising an
:py:exc:`ImportError`::
```

> we will block repeated initialization by raising an

Reviewer 2: I think we should phrase this differently. Ideally, it will be common to get multiple copies of a module (especially if we get PEP 734 in 3.14).

The idea is to slowly introduce multi-phase, right? How about something like this?

```suggestion
When there's only one interpreter in the process (that being
the main interpreter), we don't have to worry about reinitialization,
so for simplicity's sake, we will block repeated initialization by raising an
```

Author: IMO, the easiest way to think about this (and test it) is imagining what happens if you delete the module from `sys.modules`, and re-import it.
Even if no subinterpreters are involved, you should worry about reinitialization.

Author: Maybe change the “It is not very common” to something like “For simplicity, let's not worry about...”?

Reviewer 2: > Maybe change the “It is not very common” to something like “For simplicity, let's not worry about...”?

Yeah, that's what I was going for.

Author: ```suggestion
For now, let's avoid the issue:
we will block repeated initialization by raising an
```

become a dangling pointer. Should it become a dangling pointer, C code which
raises the exception could cause a core dump or other unintended side effects.

> Also note that there is no :c:func:`Py_DECREF` call to remove this reference.

Reviewer 3: Unlike the previous two notes above, this paragraph mentions a kind of workaround.  So, I'd prefer "missing" to "no", or something like "for now"?

Author: Yes.
```suggestion
For now, the :c:func:`Py_DECREF` call to remove this reference is missing.
```
But then the reader might expect a solution to appear later in the tutorial.

Reviewer 3: I think this paragraph is related to L219.

> For now, the :c:func:`Py_DECREF` call to remove this reference is missing.
> Even when the Python interpreter shuts down, :c:data:`!SpamError` will not be
> garbage-collected. It will "leak".
> We did, however, ensure that this will happen at most once per process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, the :c:func:`Py_DECREF` call to remove this reference is missing.
Even when the Python interpreter shuts down, the global :c:data:`!SpamError`
variable will not be garbage-collected. It will "leak".
We did, however, ensure that this will happen at most once per process.
```

> We did, however, ensure that this will happen at most once per process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We did, however, ensure that this will happen at most once per process.
```
Should this not be a more formal tone?

Author: Maybe; do you have a suggestion?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It has been ensured, however, that this will happen at most once per process.
```
Maybe this?

Author: Hm, looking at “The language of tutorials” [in Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/tutorials/#the-language-of-tutorials), I think the “We did” is fine.

Reviewer: We use personal pronouns throughout the documentation, it's an arbitrary style rule to try and avoid them.
